Added tutorial on ML Inference processor with the by-field rerank type (#8694)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-relevance/rerank-by-field-cross-encoder.md

## Running a search with reranking

To run a search with reranking, follow these steps:

1. [Create a connector](#step-1-create-a-connector).
1. [Register the model](#step-2-register-the-model).
1. [Ingest documents into an index](#step-3-ingest-documents-into-an-index).
1. [Create a search pipeline](#step-4-create-a-search-pipeline).
1. [Search using reranking](#step-5-search-using-reranking).

## Step 1: Create a connector

Create a connector to the cross-encoder model by providing the model URL in the `actions.url` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "SageMaker cross-encoder model",
  "description": "Test connector for SageMaker cross-encoder hosted model",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
		"access_key": "<YOUR_ACCESS_KEY>",
		"secret_key": "<YOUR_SECRET_KEY>",
		"session_token": "<YOUR_SESSION_TOKEN>"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "region": "<REGION>",
    "service_name": "sagemaker"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",

>       "url": "<YOUR_MODEL_URL>",

Author: ```suggestion
      "url": "<YOUR_SAGEMAKER_ENDPOINT_URL>",
```

      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "request_body": "{ \"inputs\": { \"text\": \"${parameters.text}\", \"text_pair\": \"${parameters.text_pair}\" }}"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Note the connector ID in the response; you'll use it in the following step.

## Step 2: Register the model

To register the model, provide the connector ID in the `connector_id` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "Cross encoder model",
  "version": "1.0.1",
  "function_name": "remote",

>   "description": "Using a SageMaker to apply a cross encoder model",

Author: ```suggestion
  "description": "Using a SageMaker endpoint to apply a cross encoder model",
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 4: Create a search pipeline

Next, create a search pipeline for reranking. In the search pipeline configuration, the `input_map` and `output_map` define how the input data is prepared for the cross-encoder model and how the model's output is interpreted for reranking:

- The `input_map` specifies which fields in the search documents and the query should be used as inputs to the model:
    - The `text` field maps to the `facts` field in the indexed documents. It provides the document-specific content that the model will analyze.
    - The `text_pair` field dynamically retrieves the search query text (`multi_match.query`) from the search request. 

    The combination of `text` (document `facts`) and `text_pair` (search `query`) allows the cross-encoder model to compare the relevance of the document to the query, considering their semantic relationship.

- The `output_map` specifies how the output of the model is mapped to fields in the response:

>     - The `rank_score` field in the response will store the model's relevance score. Both the `_score` and `rank_score` fields will contain the new document score provided by the cross-encoder and will be used to reorder the documents. Because the `rank_score` field will contain duplicate information, the request specifies to remove it from search results. The original score before the reranking is specified to be included in the response for debugging purposes. You can also compare it to the reranked score to see the improvement in search relevancy.

Author: A little bit confused on this part. It sounds like we are meshing the ml inference processor with the byfield rerank. Ive edited it to talk about them separately
```suggestion
    - The `rank_score` field in the response will store the model's relevance score which will be used to perform reranking.
    
When using the `by_field` rerank type, the `rank_score` field will contain  duplicate information, the request specifies to remove it from search results by asserting `remove_target_field` as true. The original score before the reranking is specified to be included in the response for debugging purposes via `keep_previous_score`. You can also compare it to the reranked score to see the improvement in search relevancy.
```

    
To create the search pipeline, send the following request:

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_pipeline
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "ml_inference": {
        "tag": "ml_inference",
        "description": "This processor runs ml inference during search response",
        "model_id": "<model_id_from_step_3>",
        "function_name": "REMOTE",
        "input_map": [
          {
            "text": "facts",
            "text_pair":"$._request.query.multi_match.query"
          }
        ],
        "output_map": [
          {
            "rank_score": "$.score"
          }
        ],
        "full_response_path": false,
        "model_config": {},
        "ignore_missing": false,
        "ignore_failure": false,
        "one_to_one": true
      },
       
      "rerank": {
        "by_field": {
          "target_field": "rank_score",

>           "remove_target_field":true,

Author: ```suggestion
          "remove_target_field": true,
```

---
layout: default
title: Reranking by a field using a cross-encoder
parent: Reranking search results
grand_parent: Search relevance
has_children: false
nav_order: 30
---

# Reranking by a field using an externally hosted cross-encoder model
Introduced 2.18
{: .label .label-purple }

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to use a cross-encoder model hosted on Amazon SageMaker to rerank search results and improve search relevance. 

> To rerank documents, you'll configure a search pipeline that processes search results at query time. The pipeline intercepts search results and passes them to the [`ml_inference` search response processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/ml-inference-search-response/), which invokes the cross-encoder model. The model generates scores that are used to rerank the matching documents [`by_field`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-relevance/rerank-by-field/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To rerank documents, you'll configure a search pipeline that processes search results at query time. The pipeline intercepts search results and passes them to the [`ml_inference` search response processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/ml-inference-search-response/), which invokes the cross-encoder model. The model generates scores used to rerank the matching documents [`by_field`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-relevance/rerank-by-field/).
```

## Prerequisite: Deploy a model on Amazon SageMaker

Run the following code to deploy a model on Amazon SageMaker. For this example, you'll use the [`ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2`](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2) Hugging Face cross-encoder model hosted on Amazon SageMaker. We recommend using a GPU for better performance:

```python
import sagemaker
import boto3
from sagemaker.huggingface import HuggingFaceModel

sess = sagemaker.Session()
role = sagemaker.get_execution_role()

hub = {
    'HF_MODEL_ID':'cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2',
    'HF_TASK':'text-classification'
}
huggingface_model = HuggingFaceModel(
    transformers_version='4.37.0',
    pytorch_version='2.1.0',
    py_version='py310',
    env=hub,
    role=role, 
)
predictor = huggingface_model.deploy(
    initial_instance_count=1, # number of instances
    instance_type='ml.m5.xlarge' # ec2 instance type
)
```
{% include copy.html %}

> After deploying the model, you can find the model endpoint by going to the Amazon SageMaker homepage in your AWS Console and selecting **Inference > Endpoints** in the left tab. Note the URL for the created model; you'll use it to create a connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying the model, you can find the model endpoint by going to the Amazon SageMaker console in the AWS Management Console and selecting **Inference > Endpoints** on the left tab. Note the URL for the created model; you'll use it to create a connector.
```

1. [Register the model](#step-2-register-the-model).
1. [Ingest documents into an index](#step-3-ingest-documents-into-an-index).
1. [Create a search pipeline](#step-4-create-a-search-pipeline).
1. [Search using reranking](#step-5-search-using-reranking).

## Step 1: Create a connector

Create a connector to the cross-encoder model by providing the model URL in the `actions.url` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "SageMaker cross-encoder model",
  "description": "Test connector for SageMaker cross-encoder hosted model",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "credential": {
		"access_key": "<YOUR_ACCESS_KEY>",
		"secret_key": "<YOUR_SECRET_KEY>",
		"session_token": "<YOUR_SESSION_TOKEN>"
  },
  "parameters": {
    "region": "<REGION>",
    "service_name": "sagemaker"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "<YOUR_SAGEMAKER_ENDPOINT_URL>",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "request_body": "{ \"inputs\": { \"text\": \"${parameters.text}\", \"text_pair\": \"${parameters.text_pair}\" }}"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Note the connector ID in the response; you'll use it in the following step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the connector ID contained in the response; you'll use it in the following step.
```

## Step 2: Register the model

To register the model, provide the connector ID in the `connector_id` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "Cross encoder model",
  "version": "1.0.1",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "Using a SageMaker endpoint to apply a cross encoder model",
  "connector_id": "<YOUR_CONNECTOR_ID>"
} 
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 3: Ingest documents into an index

> Create an index and ingest sample documents containing facts about the New York City boroughs into it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an index and ingest sample documents containing facts about the New York City boroughs:
```

{ "index": { "_id": 5 } }
{ "borough": "The Bronx", "area_name": "Riverdale", "description": "Riverdale is a suburban-like neighborhood in the Bronx, known for its leafy streets and affluent residential areas.", "population": 48000, "facts": "Riverdale is one of the most affluent areas in the Bronx, with beautiful parks, historic homes, and excellent schools." } 
{ "index": { "_id": 6 } }
{ "borough": "Staten Island", "area_name": "St. George", "description": "St. George is the main commercial and cultural center of Staten Island, offering stunning views of Lower Manhattan.", "population": 15000, "facts": "St. George is home to the Staten Island Ferry terminal and is a gateway to Staten Island, offering stunning views of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island." }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 4: Create a search pipeline

Next, create a search pipeline for reranking. In the search pipeline configuration, the `input_map` and `output_map` define how the input data is prepared for the cross-encoder model and how the model's output is interpreted for reranking:

> - The `input_map` specifies which fields in the search documents and the query should be used as inputs to the model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `input_map` specifies which fields in the search documents and the query should be used as model inputs:
```

    - The `text` field maps to the `facts` field in the indexed documents. It provides the document-specific content that the model will analyze.
    - The `text_pair` field dynamically retrieves the search query text (`multi_match.query`) from the search request. 

    The combination of `text` (document `facts`) and `text_pair` (search `query`) allows the cross-encoder model to compare the relevance of the document to the query, considering their semantic relationship.

> - The `output_map` specifies how the output of the model is mapped to fields in the response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `output_map` field specifies how the output of the model is mapped to the fields in the response:
```

>     - The `rank_score` field in the response will store the model's relevance score which will be used to perform reranking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The `rank_score` field in the response will store the model's relevance score, which will be used to perform reranking.
```

        "input_map": [
          {
            "text": "facts",
            "text_pair":"$._request.query.multi_match.query"
          }
        ],
        "output_map": [
          {
            "rank_score": "$.score"
          }
        ],
        "full_response_path": false,
        "model_config": {},
        "ignore_missing": false,
        "ignore_failure": false,
        "one_to_one": true
      },
       
      "rerank": {
        "by_field": {
          "target_field": "rank_score",
          "remove_target_field": true,
          "keep_previous_score" : true
          }
      }
    
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 5: Search using reranking

Use the following request to search indexed documents and rerank them using the cross-encoder model. The request retrieves documents containing any of the specified terms in the `description` or `facts` fields. These terms are then used to compare and rerank the matched documents:

```json
POST /nyc_areas/_search?search_pipeline=my_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "artists art creative community",
      "fields": ["description", "facts"]
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> In the response, the `previous_score` field contains the document's BM25 score, which it would have received if you hadn't applied the pipeline. Note that while BM25 ranked Astoria as the highest, the cross-encoder prioritized Harlem because it matched more search terms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the response, the `previous_score` field contains the document's BM25 score, which it would have received if you hadn't applied the pipeline. Note that while BM25 ranked "Astoria" the highest, the cross-encoder model prioritized "Harlem" because it matched more search terms:
```
